- [[postmortem]] The mistake I made is that I tried to go abstract before even knowing what to abstract, should have made a manual version before trying to make it scalable
	- I mean making a manual version is complicated enough, making a scalable version is much more complicated, and add on top of that that I had never made a cache before! this was a fatal combination, no wonder my head was spinning thinking about all the possible combinations
	- Before you create a scalable version, you should have made increasingly large versions, that way you can start to see the patterns, and when you get to the scalable version you have something to reference so your head doesn't go spinning in a void because you have no solid rock to stand on
	- perhaps you start with a fully manual version, then in the next version you make a few things scalable, then in the next you make a few more things more scalable and so on, so you ease yourself into it rather than diving headfirst
	- that's why that very ambitious first version failed spectacularly and wasted so much time
	- how on earth did I do that when I myself am a big advocate of trying things on a small scale first before going big!
		- I guess I majorly underestimated the difficulty of such a task, that is why I didn't do any small-scale tests, I had thought without any irony that I could finish that scalable version in like a week! that is hilarious now 6 months later and I am still not finished!
# Postmortem I wrote to the team group
By far the biggest mistake I made was that I went too abstract too fast.
This happened while designing and implementing the Multi-Level Cache System.
What I did is I went straight away and tried to make a system that was scalable and parametric, meaning that you could enter the capacity and the number of layers etc. and automatically you would have a functional multi-level cache! how nice!.
So I set out to make this dream cache system, and I seriously thought it might take me a few weeks, a month at most! 😭
As I progressed, new issues would come up that would complicate things, and things kept on getting more and more complicated until my head began to spin when I even thought about it.
I kept banging my head against this complicated mess for literal months and couldn't get it to work properly, not even close, problems that I hadn't predicted were cropping up all the damn time, and each one was increasing the complexity of the entire system by orders of magnitude!
Later, as I realized time was running out, I gave up on trying to make it this ideal scalable dream version and tried making it by hand specifically for this project, no fancy stuff. I decided to stick with only 2 levels and fixed parameters, but even this was very complicated and took a long time, as the deadline approach I had to even give up on that and just implemented a single level cache, and EVEN THAT WAS HARD!.
As you can see, The problem was that I VASTLY under-estimated the complication of such a project, because I hadn't done it before, I couldn't predict problems nor could I plan ahead, every prediction I made was wrong, every design decision eventually had to be changed which made the whole thing pretty buggy, everything took long and every change broke the entire thing, it was a major failure on my part that I will never forget.

So what should I have done?
I should have made a 1-level cache to begin with, as simple as possible, no fancy stuff, everything by hand, integrated that fully with the rest of the processor, made sure everything was 100% solid, then move on, make a 2-level version BY HAND, no parameters or anything, get that working properly with the processor. Then, as for the fancy parametric scalable stuff I wanted to make in the beginning, that should have been done AFTER THE PROJECT WAS DONE!, not during the project!.
The thing is, making such a thing is more of a research activity than a development activity, these two modes of operation are fundamentally different, in research mode you are relaxed, you take your time, and work things through methodically and neatly, you create pretty graphs and write neat math equations, whereas in development mode you have a deadline, you are practical and efficient, no need for neatness, you have a goal and you pursue it whatever the means, you do what is tried and practical, your head is not in the clouds, your eyes are not on the stars but straight ahead of you, your feet planted firmly on the ground, not floating in space.

So in short, the two lessons from this:
- Don't go abstract too fast: do things manually at first, move to abstraction once you are familiar enough with the manual way
- Don't underestimate what you don't know: if you haven't done it before then tread carefully
- There are two modes of operation: Research mode and Development mode, don't mix the two

There are probably other mistakes but those are the major ones that I can remember that had the greatest effect.

(ok this was longer than I thought it would be, sorry, I can't even predict how long a message is going to be oh my god 😭😭)