
- [x] after data is written to physical and it is filled, it begins to behave really weird, data going away then coming back, old data showing up, only the first 2 sets changing values, not sure what is happening
	- the smaller number you see aren't old data, that is actually the data warping around, remember that we are writing numbers per byte, a byte is 8-bits thus can store up to the number 256, after that it will warp around, that is normal not a problem
	- but still I think the behavior is weird, I would expect the oldest data to be written to the ram at first but actually new data gets written, that is wrong
- [x] first try to find out why we when picking a direction always the topmost is chosen rather than the lowest, just curious
	- [x] track how [[target_N]] changes
		- in the beginning it actually does go up to values other than 0 and 1, but after we reach a certain threshold, it no longer does that
		- after a certain threshold, target N is always either 0 or 1, never any other number
	- [x] theory: while checking all N for empty or hit, I don't exit the loop when I hit, so I continue and that always will return the last mem place that is available
		- that is exactly what is happening!
		- [x] solve this!
			- [x] how about going backwards!
- [x] when we are supposed to write to N=3 in physical mem, we end up writing to N=1, why is that?
	- [x] is it something to do with random generation?
	-  it seems that I only activate random generation if num of N bits is > 2, if less, I use a binary number, meaning only 0 or 1, that explains it
	- [x] correct that
		- make it >= 2
- [x] it is writing invalid bytes! why is that?
	- that duplication you see is because invalid bytes are getting written along with valid ones
	- [x] set to zero isn't working at all!
# Writing is functionaaaaaaal!!!!